This was the first piece of this word meshing poesy I felt so passionate about actually constructing, I could no longer just think about doing it, I had to put my hands to code. For several months, I had been thinking about womb envy. I found it interesting that penis envy has gotten a lot more press (by roughly 800% according to google ngrams) — and yet the power to grow a human in your body is so incredible. Are men not envious? I remember reading a false claim — from a news source that since rescinded the claim — that no one in psychoanalysis had ever talked about womb envy, only penis envy. In fact, womb envy was introduced by Kate Horney who founded the American Journal of Psychoanalysis, among other accomplishments. I think it says more about our society than it does about psychoanalysis that Freud and penis envy were and are talked about while Horney and womb envy are not.

I see two kinds of womb envy, the technical psychoanalytic definition that describes an unconscious desire of a male to be in possession of a womb inside his body, and a second softer definition: when you see an infant it’s hard not to imagine that it sometimes wishes it was back the the womb. In this sense, we all have experienced “womb envy” to some extent.

It’s possible I mixed a bit too much into this poesy. For me, FOMO or fear of missing out is almost like an anti-womb that we all swim in. But this idea, and other ideas I intended to express might end up muffled by the added intention of giving the viewer cause to meditate for 280 seconds and focus on their breath — a step that felt necessary given the sensitivity of the subject matter. Is there any subject more sensitive?